Parts/README.md, before:

# Parts

Documentation, specifications, symbols, footprints, and 3-D models for components used in the Octopi Driver Stack

## License

License information for files in subdirectories of the current directory can be found in `README.md` files within those subdirectories. License information for files in the current directory are included below.

## Octopi.dcm and Octopi.lib

KiCad symbols for one-off components used in the Octopi Driver Stack

### License

The symbol for `74HC4067PW` was created by Ethan Li as a modification of the `CD74HC4067` symbol in the `74xx` KiCad library. The specific modications made were:

- The center of the symbol was moved to be its actual geometric center
- The package and component name labels were changed to match what is used for the 74HC4067PW
- The I0 ... I15 pin labels were changed to Y0 ... Y15 to match the names used in the datasheet for the 74HC4067PW

The symbol for `MAX7317` was created by Ethan Li as a modification of the `MCP23S17_SO` symbol in the `Interface_Expansion` KiCad library. The specific modifications made were:

- All pins were changed, reassigned, and moved to match what is used for the MAX7317
- The package and component name labels were changed to match what is used for the MAX7317

The symbol for `DACx0508` was created by Ethan Li as a modification of the `DAC5578xPW` symbol in the `Analog_DAC` KiCad library. The specific modifications made were:

- All pins were changed, reassigned, and moved to match what is used for the DACx0508
- The package and component name labels were changed to match what is used for the DACx0508

All symbols created as modifications of symbols in the KiCad libraries are copyright Prakash Lab and the Octopi project contributors, and those symbols are licensed under the [Creative Commons CC-BY-SA 4.0 License](LICENSE.CC-BY-SA) as required by the KiCad [libraries license](https://kicad.org/libraries/license/).

Commit message:

Fix incorrect pin type in the AD7689xCP symbol from KiCad

Parts/README.md, after:

# Parts

Documentation, specifications, symbols, footprints, and 3-D models for components used in the Octopi Driver Stack

## License

License information for files in subdirectories of the current directory can be found in `README.md` files within those subdirectories. License information for files in the current directory are included below.

## Octopi.dcm and Octopi.lib

KiCad symbols for one-off components used in the Octopi Driver Stack

### License

The symbol for `74HC4067PW` was created by Ethan Li as a modification of the `CD74HC4067` symbol in the `74xx` KiCad library. The specific modications made were:

- The center of the symbol was moved to be its actual geometric center
- The package and component name labels were changed to match what is used for the 74HC4067PW
- The I0 ... I15 pin labels were changed to Y0 ... Y15 to match the names used in the datasheet for the 74HC4067PW

The symbol for `MAX7317` was created by Ethan Li as a modification of the `MCP23S17_SO` symbol in the `Interface_Expansion` KiCad library. The specific modifications made were:

- All pins were changed, reassigned, and moved to match what is used for the MAX7317
- The package and component name labels were changed to match what is used for the MAX7317

The symbol for `DACx0508` was created by Ethan Li as a modification of the `DAC5578xPW` symbol in the `Analog_DAC` KiCad library. The specific modifications made were:

- All pins were changed, reassigned, and moved to match what is used for the DACx0508
- The package and component name labels were changed to match what is used for the DACx0508

The symbol for `AD7689xCP` was created by Ethan Li as a modification of the `AD7689xCP` symbol in the `Analog_ADC` KiCad library. The specific modifications made were:

- The SDO pin was changed from the Output pin type to the Tri-State pin type

All symbols created as modifications of symbols in the KiCad libraries are copyright Prakash Lab and the Octopi project contributors, and those symbols are licensed under the [Creative Commons CC-BY-SA 4.0 License](LICENSE.CC-BY-SA) as required by the KiCad [libraries license](https://kicad.org/libraries/license/).
