README.md, before:

# octopi-driver-board

Driver electronics for the Octopi and Squid microscope families.

![3D render of the driver electronics stack](ODSv1.0.0/Mechanical%20Renders/6.png)

This repository contains the design files for printed circuit boards (PCBs) for driving the sensors and actuators of the Octopi and Squid families of microscopes.

## Background

### Motivation

[Octopi](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/684423v1), short for _Open configurable high-throughput imaging platform for infectious disease diagnosis_, is a low-cost and reconfigurable autonomous microscopy platform capable of automated slide scanning and correlated bright-field and fluorescence imaging. It has been developed for malaria microscopy, and its modular design also provides a framework for new disease-specific modules to be developed.

![Photo of the Octopi microscope](https://ethanj.li/static/96ba189e5d298b1b8b0ab666cba205b6/a24e6/octopi.jpg)

[Squid](https://squid-imaging.org/), short for _Simplifying quantitative imaging platform development and deployment_, is a toolkit for implementing research microscopes with advanced imaging capabilities comparable to what's available in commercial solutions, but at a fraction of the cost and with much higher portability. Squid provides a full suite of hardware and software components for rapidly configuring high-performance microscopes tailored to users' applications with reduced cost, effort, and turnaround time. Besides increasing accessibility of research microscopes and available microscope hours to labs, it is also designed to simplify development and dissemination of new or otherwise advanced microscopy techniques.

![CAD renders of three configurations of the Squid microscope](https://ethanj.li/static/5ce8263b4c58000a8af6213b03295a68/ea60f/squid-configurations.png)

Because the modules of the Octopi and Squid microscopes contain various sensors and actuators which need to be electronically driven and integrated into a complete system, the Squid project also provides printed circuit boards for interfacing and controlling these modules. This repository contains the designs for printed circuit boards needed to drive these microscopes.

### Design Overview

Subsystems of the driver electronics are organized as discrete modules which are integrated into the overall system by being stacked. These modules are PCBs which are electrically connected through board-to-board connectors and mechanically connected through standoffs at their corners, reminiscent of the [PC/104](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PC/104) family of standards for embedded computer form factors and communication buses. The stacking system is called the _Octopi Driver Stack_ (ODS), while the boards which are stacked are called _planes_. There are also boards which are not part of the stack but rather connect to planes; because these are peripheral to the system, they are called _peripheral boards_. Planes and peripheral boards may also have smaller circuit boards mounted onto them, which are called _daughter boards_.

Each board is given a two-part name code, consisting of a name code for the type of board followed by a name code for the specific design of the board. Each board is associated with a version of the Octopi Driver Stack (which provides information about compatibility between planes) and an independent version of the board itself (which provides information about functionality within planes and connector interfaces between the plane and daughter boards or peripheral boards). Version numbers follow the [Sematic Versioning 2.0.0](https://semver.org/) specification.

ODSv1.0.0 consists of planes measuring 150 mm x 150 mm which are all connected to each other by shared data and power bus lines for all GPIO provided by a microcontroller. Each corner of a plane has a mounting hole sized for an M3 standoff; these mounting holes are spaced 140 mm apart, with 5 mm between the center of each hole and its two nearest edges. Each corner of the plane is a rounded corner of radius 5 mm. The four edges of each plane are allocated to different functionalities:

- The front edge contains indicator LEDs, as well as connectors and circuity for the shared data and power bus lines which connect all planes together in a stack. In this project, these connectors and circuitry are collectively called the _backbone_ of ODSv1.0.0; at the level of hardware these elements are just a bus like in the PC/104 architecture, but our project uses the term "backbone" so that we can use the word "bus" only to describe standard buses (e.g. SPI, I2C) which the "backbone" is organized around. Each plane has two connectors for the backbone system, and they are at the same position but on opposite faces of the PCB. On the bottom face, a Hirose [FunctionMAX FX20-120S-0.5SV](https://www.hirose.com/product/p/CL0570-1105-6-00) receptacle is used. On the top face, a Hirose FunctionMax [FX20-120P-0.5SV15](https://www.hirose.com/product/p/CL0570-1005-1-00) header or [FX20-120P-0.5SV20](https://www.hirose.com/product/p/CL0570-1011-4-00) header is used, depending on the height of components on the top face of the board. These connectors are positioned so that their centers are 55 mm from the left edge of the plane and 35 mm from the front edge of the plane. The connectors are oriented so that their long edges are parallel with the front and rear edges of the plane, and so that pin 1 is farthest from the left-front corner of the plane.
- The left edge contains input and output power connectors.
- The right edge contains analog and digital signal connectors.
- The rear edge contains rarely-used or rarely-accessed connectors.

ODSv1.0.0 consists of a single central processing plane (board type name code `PP`, short for _Processing Plane_), which is stacked together with other planes consisting mainly of SPI devices, such as for:

- Motion control (board type name code `MP`, short for _Motion Plane_)
- Camera synchronization (board type name code `CP`, short for _Camera Plane_)
- Illumination control (board type name code `IP`, short for _Illumination Plane_)
- Thermal control (board type name code `TP`, short for _Thermal Plane_)
- Sensing (board type name code `SP`, short for _Sensing Plane_)
- Fluids control (board type name code `FP`, short for _Fluids Plane_)
- I/O prototyping breakout (board type name code `BP`, short for _Breakout Plane_)

The SPI devices on these planes are addressed through [a hierarchical chip-select multiplexing scheme](https://ethanj.li/posts/2021/01/unyielding-foundations#iteration-3-more-modularity-becomes-necessary) to enable composition of planes for customization, reconfiguration, and expansion of capabilities.

Every plane is separated by a distance of either 15 mm or 20 mm from the plane above it, depending on the height of components on the top face of the plane. All tall components should only be on the top face of the plane.

## Install

To set up your computer for using this repository, you will need to install [KiCad](https://kicad.org/) version 5.1.9; note that this repository relies on KiCad footprints which exist in 5.1.9 and not in earlier versions. You should have the default symbol, footprint, and 3-D model libraries provided by KiCad. References to custom symbols, footprints, and 3-D models will work out-of-the-box, as they are all provided in this repository and referenced in KiCad relative to the `${KIPRJMOD}` environment variable.

To prepare 3D models for components, you will need to download [FreeCAD 0.19](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/releases/tag/0.19_pre) and install the [KiCad StepUp workbench](https://github.com/easyw/kicadStepUpMod).

## Usage

This repository is structured so that every board has its own top-level directory with the following naming scheme:

- Templates: `ODSv<Octopi Driver Stack version>-<template type name code>-<specific design name code, if any>`
- Planes: `ODSv<Octopi Driver Stack version>-<board type name code>-<specific design name code>`
- Peripheral boards and daughter boards: `<board type name code>-<specific design name code>`

Each directory has a short README describing the contents of the directory. All boards are designed in KiCad. Only the most recent version of each board is included at the HEAD of the repository; older versions of boards are tagged on Git and archived in this repository's Github Releases.

Templates are provided as starters to copy for creating new boards. For more information, refer to [ODSv1.0.0-BT/README.md](ODSv1.0.0-BT/README.md).

All footprints, documentation, CAD models, and KiCad libraries for components and daughter boards used with the ODSv1.0.0 boards are available in the `Parts` directory.

A KiCad project which mechanically integrates all planes in the ODSv1.0.0 stack for 3D rendering is in the `ODSv1.0.0` directory.

### Releases

Snapshots of boards for fabrication/assembly are tagged and associated with releases. Each release comes with the following attachments:

- The schematic diagram (`*-schematic.pdf`)
- A drawing of the footprints and silkscreens on the top face of the board (`*-silk-top.pdf`)
- A 2-D rendering of the top face of the board, including copper and silkscreens (`*-board-*-top.png`)
- Gerber and drill files for fabricating the board with PCBway (`*-gerb.zip`)
- A complete archive of all diagrams, drawings, renderings, and fabrication and assembly files for the board (`*-docs-rev*.zip`)

### Automated Exports

The assets attached with releases are automatically generated from a Github Actions workflow in this repository. This workflow is automatically run for commits in all pull requests and for any pushed commit.

The workflow can also be manually triggered from the [KiCad Exports](https://github.com/prakashlab/octopi-driver-board/actions?query=workflow%3A%22KiCad+Exports%22) page, with the following parameters:

- Branch: Use this to specify which branch to use for the workflow.
- Git ref: Use this to specify which commit of the design files to export. If you leave it blank, it will do an export from the most recent commit on the selected branch. If you give it a tag name or commit SHA hash, the workflow will export files from the corresponding commit.
- Boards: Use this to specify which boards to export. If you leave it blank, it will export all boards. If you want to export multiple boards, separate their names with spaces (e.g. `ODSv1.0.0-PP-T41 ODSv1.0.0-CP-5x`).
- Variants: Use this to specify which variants of each board to export. If you leave it blank, it will export only the default variant of all specified boards. You should only use this field if you have specified exactly one board to export; otherwise, leave it blank. If you want to export multiple variants, separate them with spaces (e.g. `Default Pufferfish`).

## Maintainers

Currently the maintainer of this repository is [Ethan Li](https://github.com/ethanjli).

## Contributing

The ODSv1.0.0 system is still at an early stage, and we do not have capacity to provide extensive support to people interested in contributing to the project. We have not yet set up public infrastructure for users to ask questions. We will look at pull requests but we do not yet have a process for accepting them. However, we are excited to build a community of contributors, so as this repository matures we will work to set up these processes and systems.

All contributions should be made through pull-requests. Before a pull request is merged, every author or co-author of the pull request must add a comment answering the following questions:

1. This project is licensed under Apache License v2.0 for any software, and Solderpad Hardware License v2.1 for any hardware - do you agree that your contributions to this project will be under these licenses, too? **Indicate response here** (the contributions will only be accepted if all co-authors agree)
2. Were any of these contributions also part of work you did for an employer or a client? If so, do you have their permission to release it? **Indicate responses to both questions here** (the contributions will only be accepted if the answer to the first question is "no", or when the answer to the second question is "yes").
3. Does this work include, or is it based on, any third-party work which you did not create? If so, what is it licensed under, and what modifications, if any, did you make to it? **Indicate response here** (before the contributions are accepted, use of those third-party works will need to be recorded, license compatibility will need to be checked, and license notices will need to be retained within the repository; we are happy to support you in getting these things in order)

## License

Copyright Prakash Lab and the Octopi project contributors.

SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH SHL-2.1

Except where otherwise indicated, all work in this repository is licensed under the [Solderpad Hardware License v2.1](LICENSE) (the “License”); you may not use files except in compliance with the License, or, at your option, the [Apache License version 2.0](LICENSE.Apache). You may obtain a copy of the License at https://solderpad.org/licenses/SHL-2.1/

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, any work distributed under the License is distributed on an “AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Add basic unit tests for PP-T41 (#19)
* Add datasheets for LEDs

* Add test sketch to cycle through each Teensy pin and make a square wave

* Add sketch to flash indicator LEDs on PP-T41 individually in a cycle

* Refactor Status_Indicators test

* Remove datasheets for Lite-On LEDs because they will be replaced for #14

* Add README documentation for running the tests

* Add README for PP-T41 status indicator LEDs cyclical blinking test

* Fix typoes in READMEs for unit tests

* Fix error in ODSv1.0.0-BP-Jmp/README.md's pin assignments table

* Add PP-T41 DSCS demultiplexing test

README.md, after:

# octopi-driver-board

Driver electronics for the Octopi and Squid microscope families.

![3D render of the driver electronics stack](ODSv1.0.0/Mechanical%20Renders/6.png)

This repository contains the design files for printed circuit boards (PCBs) for driving the sensors and actuators of the Octopi and Squid families of microscopes.

## Background

### Motivation

[Octopi](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/684423v1), short for _Open configurable high-throughput imaging platform for infectious disease diagnosis_, is a low-cost and reconfigurable autonomous microscopy platform capable of automated slide scanning and correlated bright-field and fluorescence imaging. It has been developed for malaria microscopy, and its modular design also provides a framework for new disease-specific modules to be developed.

![Photo of the Octopi microscope](https://ethanj.li/static/96ba189e5d298b1b8b0ab666cba205b6/a24e6/octopi.jpg)

[Squid](https://squid-imaging.org/), short for _Simplifying quantitative imaging platform development and deployment_, is a toolkit for implementing research microscopes with advanced imaging capabilities comparable to what's available in commercial solutions, but at a fraction of the cost and with much higher portability. Squid provides a full suite of hardware and software components for rapidly configuring high-performance microscopes tailored to users' applications with reduced cost, effort, and turnaround time. Besides increasing accessibility of research microscopes and available microscope hours to labs, it is also designed to simplify development and dissemination of new or otherwise advanced microscopy techniques.

![CAD renders of three configurations of the Squid microscope](https://ethanj.li/static/5ce8263b4c58000a8af6213b03295a68/ea60f/squid-configurations.png)

Because the modules of the Octopi and Squid microscopes contain various sensors and actuators which need to be electronically driven and integrated into a complete system, the Squid project also provides printed circuit boards for interfacing and controlling these modules. This repository contains the designs for printed circuit boards needed to drive these microscopes.

### Design Overview

Subsystems of the driver electronics are organized as discrete modules which are integrated into the overall system by being stacked. These modules are PCBs which are electrically connected through board-to-board connectors and mechanically connected through standoffs at their corners, reminiscent of the [PC/104](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PC/104) family of standards for embedded computer form factors and communication buses. The stacking system is called the _Octopi Driver Stack_ (ODS), while the boards which are stacked are called _planes_. There are also boards which are not part of the stack but rather connect to planes; because these are peripheral to the system, they are called _peripheral boards_. Planes and peripheral boards may also have smaller circuit boards mounted onto them, which are called _daughter boards_.

Each board is given a two-part name code, consisting of a name code for the type of board followed by a name code for the specific design of the board. Each board is associated with a version of the Octopi Driver Stack (which provides information about compatibility between planes) and an independent version of the board itself (which provides information about functionality within planes and connector interfaces between the plane and daughter boards or peripheral boards). Version numbers follow the [Sematic Versioning 2.0.0](https://semver.org/) specification.

ODSv1.0.0 consists of planes measuring 150 mm x 150 mm which are all connected to each other by shared data and power bus lines for all GPIO provided by a microcontroller. Each corner of a plane has a mounting hole sized for an M3 standoff; these mounting holes are spaced 140 mm apart, with 5 mm between the center of each hole and its two nearest edges. Each corner of the plane is a rounded corner of radius 5 mm. The four edges of each plane are allocated to different functionalities:

- The front edge contains indicator LEDs, as well as connectors and circuity for the shared data and power bus lines which connect all planes together in a stack. In this project, these connectors and circuitry are collectively called the _backbone_ of ODSv1.0.0; at the level of hardware these elements are just a bus like in the PC/104 architecture, but our project uses the term "backbone" so that we can use the word "bus" only to describe standard buses (e.g. SPI, I2C) which the "backbone" is organized around. Each plane has two connectors for the backbone system, and they are at the same position but on opposite faces of the PCB. On the bottom face, a Hirose [FunctionMAX FX20-120S-0.5SV](https://www.hirose.com/product/p/CL0570-1105-6-00) receptacle is used. On the top face, a Hirose FunctionMax [FX20-120P-0.5SV15](https://www.hirose.com/product/p/CL0570-1005-1-00) header or [FX20-120P-0.5SV20](https://www.hirose.com/product/p/CL0570-1011-4-00) header is used, depending on the height of components on the top face of the board. These connectors are positioned so that their centers are 55 mm from the left edge of the plane and 35 mm from the front edge of the plane. The connectors are oriented so that their long edges are parallel with the front and rear edges of the plane, and so that pin 1 is farthest from the left-front corner of the plane.
- The left edge contains input and output power connectors.
- The right edge contains analog and digital signal connectors.
- The rear edge contains rarely-used or rarely-accessed connectors.

ODSv1.0.0 consists of a single central processing plane (board type name code `PP`, short for _Processing Plane_), which is stacked together with other planes consisting mainly of SPI devices, such as for:

- Motion control (board type name code `MP`, short for _Motion Plane_)
- Camera synchronization (board type name code `CP`, short for _Camera Plane_)
- Illumination control (board type name code `IP`, short for _Illumination Plane_)
- Thermal control (board type name code `TP`, short for _Thermal Plane_)
- Sensing (board type name code `SP`, short for _Sensing Plane_)
- Fluids control (board type name code `FP`, short for _Fluids Plane_)
- I/O prototyping breakout (board type name code `BP`, short for _Breakout Plane_)

The SPI devices on these planes are addressed through [a hierarchical chip-select multiplexing scheme](https://ethanj.li/posts/2021/01/unyielding-foundations#iteration-3-more-modularity-becomes-necessary) to enable composition of planes for customization, reconfiguration, and expansion of capabilities.

Every plane is separated by a distance of either 15 mm or 20 mm from the plane above it, depending on the height of components on the top face of the plane. All tall components should only be on the top face of the plane.

## Install

To set up your computer for using this repository, you will need to install [KiCad](https://kicad.org/) version 5.1.9; note that this repository relies on KiCad footprints which exist in 5.1.9 and not in earlier versions. You should have the default symbol, footprint, and 3-D model libraries provided by KiCad. References to custom symbols, footprints, and 3-D models will work out-of-the-box, as they are all provided in this repository and referenced in KiCad relative to the `${KIPRJMOD}` environment variable.

To prepare 3D models for components, you will need to download [FreeCAD 0.19](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/releases/tag/0.19_pre) and install the [KiCad StepUp workbench](https://github.com/easyw/kicadStepUpMod).

## Usage

This repository is structured so that every board has its own top-level directory with the following naming scheme:

- Templates: `ODSv<Octopi Driver Stack version>-<template type name code>-<specific design name code, if any>`
- Planes: `ODSv<Octopi Driver Stack version>-<board type name code>-<specific design name code>`
- Peripheral boards and daughter boards: `<board type name code>-<specific design name code>`

Each directory has a short README describing the contents of the directory. All boards are designed in KiCad. Only the most recent version of each board is included at the HEAD of the repository; older versions of boards are tagged on Git and archived in this repository's Github Releases.

Templates are provided as starters to copy for creating new boards. For more information, refer to [ODSv1.0.0-BT/README.md](ODSv1.0.0-BT/README.md).

All footprints, documentation, CAD models, and KiCad libraries for components and daughter boards used with the ODSv1.0.0 boards are available in the `Parts` directory.

Unit tests for the ODSv1.0.0 boards are available in the `Tests` directory. These are Arduino sketches intended to be uploaded to the Teensy for basic verification of board functionality.

A KiCad project which mechanically integrates all planes in the ODSv1.0.0 stack for 3D rendering is in the `ODSv1.0.0` directory.

### Extending Functionality

This repository will provide planes and boards which implement a core set of functionalities. When you need to prototype new functionalities integrated into the driver stack, you should the [ODSv1.0.0-BP-Jmp](ODSv1.0.0-BP-Jmp) breakout plane, which is designed to enable prototyping. To start out, just connect the components you need with jumper wires to the various header pins on that plane; whenever possible, you should prefer using the SPI bus and the pins in the GPIO section. If you run out of available GPIO pins, if you need to assemble many copies of your prototype, or if you need more breakouts, then you should integrate your components as a new plane and, ideally, submit your plane to this repository. To do so:

1. Wherever possible, shift your use of GPIO pins on BP-Jmp to the plane's SPI I/O expanders for digital I/O, ADC, and DAC. The headers for those components are in the middle of the plane.
2. Create a new plane as a copy of the [ODSv1.0.0-BT](ODSv1.0.0-BT) starter template. For more information, refer to [ODSv1.0.0-BT/README.md](ODSv1.0.0-BT/README.md).
3. Add the standardized SPI I/O expanders, which are used in the BP-Jmp plane, to meet your GPIO needs.
4. Add other SPI devices as needed.

Where appropriate, you should delegate functions in your plane onto daughter boards. For example, if there is a particularly complex or expensive subsystem which you need to be able to swap out or test independently, or if you are reusing the same subsystem multiple times, you may want to make daughter board PCBs - each with one copy of the subsystem - which you can plug in to your new plane.

### Releases

Snapshots of boards for fabrication/assembly are tagged and associated with releases. Each release comes with the following attachments:

- The schematic diagram (`*-schematic.pdf`)
- A drawing of the footprints and silkscreens on the top face of the board (`*-silk-top.pdf`)
- A 2-D rendering of the top face of the board, including copper and silkscreens (`*-board-*-top.png`)
- Gerber and drill files for fabricating the board with PCBway (`*-gerb.zip`)
- A complete archive of all diagrams, drawings, renderings, and fabrication and assembly files for the board (`*-docs-rev*.zip`)

### Automated Exports

The assets attached with releases are automatically generated from a Github Actions workflow in this repository. This workflow is automatically run for commits in all pull requests and for any pushed commit.

The workflow can also be manually triggered from the [KiCad Exports](https://github.com/prakashlab/octopi-driver-board/actions?query=workflow%3A%22KiCad+Exports%22) page, with the following parameters:

- Branch: Use this to specify which branch to use for the workflow.
- Git ref: Use this to specify which commit of the design files to export. If you leave it blank, it will do an export from the most recent commit on the selected branch. If you give it a tag name or commit SHA hash, the workflow will export files from the corresponding commit.
- Boards: Use this to specify which boards to export. If you leave it blank, it will export all boards. If you want to export multiple boards, separate their names with spaces (e.g. `ODSv1.0.0-PP-T41 ODSv1.0.0-CP-5x`).
- Variants: Use this to specify which variants of each board to export. If you leave it blank, it will export only the default variant of all specified boards. You should only use this field if you have specified exactly one board to export; otherwise, leave it blank. If you want to export multiple variants, separate them with spaces (e.g. `Default Pufferfish`).

## Maintainers

Currently the maintainer of this repository is [Ethan Li](https://github.com/ethanjli).

## Contributing

The ODSv1.0.0 system is still at an early stage, and we do not have capacity to provide extensive support to people interested in contributing to the project. We have not yet set up public infrastructure for users to ask questions. We will look at pull requests but we do not yet have a process for accepting them. However, we are excited to build a community of contributors, so as this repository matures we will work to set up these processes and systems.

All contributions should be made through pull-requests. Before a pull request is merged, every author or co-author of the pull request must add a comment answering the following questions:

1. This project is licensed under Apache License v2.0 for any software, and Solderpad Hardware License v2.1 for any hardware - do you agree that your contributions to this project will be under these licenses, too? **Indicate response here** (the contributions will only be accepted if all co-authors agree)
2. Were any of these contributions also part of work you did for an employer or a client? If so, do you have their permission to release it? **Indicate responses to both questions here** (the contributions will only be accepted if the answer to the first question is "no", or when the answer to the second question is "yes").
3. Does this work include, or is it based on, any third-party work which you did not create? If so, what is it licensed under, and what modifications, if any, did you make to it? **Indicate response here** (before the contributions are accepted, use of those third-party works will need to be recorded, license compatibility will need to be checked, and license notices will need to be retained within the repository; we are happy to support you in getting these things in order)

## License

Copyright Prakash Lab and the Octopi project contributors.

SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH SHL-2.1

Except where otherwise indicated, all work in this repository is licensed under the [Solderpad Hardware License v2.1](LICENSE) (the “License”); you may not use files except in compliance with the License, or, at your option, the [Apache License version 2.0](LICENSE.Apache). You may obtain a copy of the License at https://solderpad.org/licenses/SHL-2.1/

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, any work distributed under the License is distributed on an “AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
